Ivan Toney's struggles in front of goal continued as Brentford played out a goalless Premier League draw with Fulham. England striker Toney registered just one shot on target - and two in total - as he drew a blank for the 10th Premier League game in succession.

Raul Jimenez had Fulham's best chance when he was picked out by Adama Traore's low cross but contrived to miss the target from close range. Bryan Mbeumo hit the crossbar for the Bees who also had a decent shout for a penalty turned down after Yoane Wissa appeared to be bundled over by Sasa Lukic.

Fulham moved up to 12th spot ahead of Brighton on goal difference, although the Seagulls have two games in hand, while Brentford remain 16th.

Quiet day for Toney
Brentford's top-flight status had already been secured while Fulham's bid to finish in the European places was over. It meant there was little to play for at the Gtech Community Stadium beyond three points and bragging rights for two clubs situated only a handful of miles apart in west London. That allowed both sides to play with a level of attacking freedom, and there was a degree of intensity to the contest.

However, there was also lack of quality in and around the penalty box and among those to have a subdued afternoon in that regard was Toney. The 28-year-old scored four goals in the first five games when he returned to action at the end of January following an eight-month suspension for betting offences.

Since he scored in a 4-1 defeat by Liverpool on 17 February there has been a goal for England in a mid-March friendly international against Belgium, but nothing for the Bees. He is now on his joint longest run without a goal having also gone 10 games without finding the net between February and April 2019 while at Peterborough United. 

In truth, Toney saw little of the ball against Fulham and, starved of service from his team-mates, largely coasted through a game with little at stake. It remains to be seen whether Toney shows enough in Brentford's remaining two games to squeeze into Gareth Southgate's 26-man England squad for Euro 2024.